Okay.
So here we are in our sub nav component.
And in the previous lesson we replaced the former reference to this dot dollar sign root with our new
invocation of the user out helper function.
The next thing I want to take care of is replacing map getters.
But remember, map getters itself is its own helper function.
It's its own syntactic sugar over something else.
Remember that on every single component in our app we have access to this dollar sign store and that
represents our View X store.
And on that store object we have a getters property and that's where we have all of our getters like
filter jobs.
So whenever we use map getters, all we're basically doing behind the scenes is asking view to get this
getter from this location in the store and then make it available as a direct computed property or a
method on this component.
So now this component is going to be able to use this dot filter jobs, which is really just referencing
the filter jobs getter on the store.
And that's what map getters is doing for us behind the scenes.
The key takeaway here, though, is it's pretty much the same problem as we had with router and root
in that this logic is coming from a dependence on a property on the component called Dollar Sign Store,
which we no longer have.
So once again, hopefully get the strategy here.
Can you guess how we're going to be able to get the store inside of our setup method?
We're going to use a helper function from view X.
Can you guess what it's called?
You're absolutely right.
It's called use store.
So right here, below view, I'm going to import a named export called Use Store and this is going to
come from View X.
Remember, these are all separate libraries, so they're each giving us their own helper functions related
to their functionalities.
Root and router belong to view router.
That's why they're going to give us use route and use router.
The View Store belongs to the U.S., so that's why we import that from the U.S..
Now, just as a quick heads up, these functions that we are importing here are called composable.
That is the technical name for a helper function, basically a helper function that returns some bit
of reactive state in the view ecosystem.
This is called a composable function, but I'm just going to continue to use the word helper function
for now.
I mean that in the most general sense, a function that helps us accomplish something that we need to
do.
All right.
So what are we going to do in our setup method?
We're going to invoke the use store.
Function.
And what is that going to give us that's going to give us access to The View Store?
All right.
So this is a reactive object, which is great because whenever the getter updates or whenever the store
updates and reruns, the getter, we want to re compute something in our component.
We want that to be the filter jobs name that we have here.
So remember, our component is dependent on the filter jobs array because it wants to take its length.
So whenever a filter jobs updates that get a rerun because some original state has changed on the View
Store.
So once again, whenever we have this derived data and basically all all getters that we use on our
components are technically derived data because it's basically just a component method that is a reflection
of another method on the View Store, right?
It's not original data, it's a getter belonging to something else.
So basically any getter we use is intrinsically derived.
It's just a duplicate copy of that method on our component.
So in order to get this to work, we're going to need to use our familiar computed function.
So right here, in order to have filter jobs available online, we're going to need to have a name here
called Filter Jobs and then we're going to need to return it in the object below.
So for filter jobs, I'm going to invoke the computed function.
I'm going to pass in a function that's going to rerun.
And whatever I provide, here is what viewers are going to watch for changes.
And remember, our store is reactive.
So simply, if we provide store anywhere in line here, we're going to be able to rerun this computed
function that we pass whenever the store changes.
So remember on our store we have our getters property.
This is the exact same thing we have right here because dollar sign store and store right here are the
same object.
We're just getting it from a different place.
We're getting it from use store instead of getting it directly embedded in our component via the dollar
sign store property.
But it's the same view store object fundamentally.
So it's still going to have a getters property.
And on that getters property we're going to have all of our getters.
And one of our getters, of course, is filter jobs, right?
So I'm going to access it directly like so.
And most importantly, just because we've defined it here doesn't mean it's available in our template.
We also need to make sure that we return it as a named property in this object.
So filter jobs right here, save that.
And with that we essentially have replaced all of our former functionality in the Options API and our
component will still work.
So let's remove our former imports of map getters and filter jobs.
Let's import our compute or remove our computed properties right here and there we go.
So does this make the component a little bit easier to read and understand?
I think so.
For example, this is our first component where we sort of have two separate pieces of functionality.
One is related to the store and one is related to the root.
And we have computed logic related to both.
But notice how we can organize our code together.
So here is where we create the store.
And down below, we can immediately show that filter jobs is related to the store and its getters.
And here we show that we have a reactive object called Root, and immediately below we can lumped together
or organize related code.
This piece of code is dependent on the reactive root and its name.
So going back to the original principles we talked about as to why the composition API is beneficial.
It's beneficial like this for reasons like this.
Instead of scattering related functionality across data methods, computed properties and having them
live further apart, we can bring them closer together in the Senate method and organize them together
so that people can more closely follow the logic of what depends on what right.
We sort of have this understanding of reactive state very similar to the ref function, but coming from
somewhere else and then computed state that is dependent on that reactive state.
This is one bit of functionality.
This is another bit of functionality.
We are then returning an object with the properties that we care about.
So now we have on job results page available, we have filter jobs available and this should work in
the browser.
So I'm going to transition back to Chrome and let's expand job types in organizations, sign in, just
show the sub nav and let's take a look at what happens when I select part time.
Perfect it updates YouTube point of view temporary full time intern.
If the number doesn't update, it simply means there's no jobs that fit the criteria.
But as I continue to add or subtract, you're going to see that the number is generally an update,
which means all of our logic is still working, which means our connection to the View Store is intact.
Our connection to the router is intact.
We're now just using functions to get those reactive objects instead of getting them directly as component
properties under this keyword.
That's it.
So hopefully that jump to the composition API so far has not been crazy difficult.
It sort of feels pretty logical to me.
We're now just using functions in place of properties.
All right.
So that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
And I will see you in the next one.